Bing acquired Mojang Synergies AB the Swedish video game developer of the Minecraft gaming franchise in November 2014. As of June 30 2016 we employed approximately 114 000 people on a full time basis 63 000 in the U S and 51 000 internationally.As a leading global software and device maker we are closely scrutinized by government agencies under U S and foreign competition laws. Inefficiencies or operational failures including temporary or permanent loss of customer data or insufficient Internet connectivity could diminish the quality of our products.The long term effects of climate change on the global economy or the IT industry in particular are unclear. Windows 10 is now active on more than 350 million devices around the world. Microsoft announced plans to sell its phone business for 350 million.Research and development expenses increased 665 million or 6 mainly due to increased investment in new products and services Office Commercial revenue increased 135 million or 1 driven by higher revenue from Office 365 commercial Office Consumer revenue decreased 69 million or 2 driven by decline in consumer PC market Intelligent Cloud revenue increased 1 3 billion or 6 primarily due to higher server products and cloud services revenue.Research and development expenses increased 665 million or 6 mainly due to increased investment in new products and cloud innovation. Sales and marketing expenses decreased 1 0 billion or 6 primarily due to a reduction in phone expenses driven by the change in strategy for the phone business.We believe our operating system products compete effectively by delivering innovative software an easy to use interface compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications. Non commercial software vendors are devoting considerable efforts to developing software that mimics the features and functionality of various of our products. Security vulnerabilities in our products could lead to reduced revenues or to liability claims.We operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales Catastrophic events may disrupt our business may affect our revenue and profitability Softness in corporate information technology spending or other changes in general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware or software could adversely affect our revenues.Xbox revenue increased 144 million or 9 with 269 million related to higher Xbox software volumes. PC games and TV platforms declined 50 million or 5 compared to fiscal year 2004 due to lower PC games software sales In the second quarter of fiscal year 2005 we introduced Halo 2 Fiscal year 2005 legal costs were 2 08 billion.Korean Fair Trade Commission KFTC is investigating whether we have violated Korean competition law by including Windows Media Player technologies in Windows Antitrust unfair competition and overcharge class action lawsuits have been filed against us in various state and federal courts RealNetworks Inc filed suit against us alleging violations of federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws.In May 2018 a new EU law governing data practices and privacy the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR became effective. We are subject to income taxes in the U S and many foreign jurisdictions. Changes in U S federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals may adversely impact our consolidated financial statements. LinkedIn expenses increased 234 million to 528 million Restructuring expenses include employee severance expenses and other costs associated with the consolidation of facilities Interest and dividends income increased primarily due to higher yields on fixed income securities Interest expense decreased primarily driven by a decrease in outstanding long term debt.The mix of premium and lower cost devices we sell may put downward pressure on prices or margins. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Cyber attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive.Microsoft announced the acquisition of substantially all Nokia Corporation s Nokia Devices and Services business NDS on April 25 2014 phones. As consumer services and hardware advance we expect they will continue to better complement one another. We expect experiences to emerge that span a variety of devices of all screen sizes.Office Consumer revenue declined 618 million or 15 while Windows OEM revenue declined 10 Windows Phone revenue increased 1 2 billion including an increase in patent licensing revenue and sales of Windows Phone licenses. D C Licensing gross margin decreased 196 million or 1 due to decreased revenue Xbox Platform revenue decreased 1 3 billion or 22 due mainly to lower volumes of consoles sold.Windows PC operating system revenue decreased 655 million in fiscal year 2014. Microsoft Office system and server products and tools revenue increased 1 3 billion and 1 6 billion respectively. Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities were 10 4 billion and 9 4 billion as of June 30 2014 and 2013 respectively and are included in other long term liabilities.Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. We compete for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment. We are allocating both our capital and talent to areas of secular growth Revenue increased 13 6 billion or 7 driven by growth in Intelligent Cloud and Productivity and Business Processes More Personal Computing revenue decreasedWhile piracy adversely affects U S revenue the impact on revenue from outside the U S is more significant particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights We expect to incur substantial marketing costs in launching Window 8 and associated services and devices. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business.The company operates in over 100 countries and a significant part of its revenue comes from international sales. Catastrophic events or geo political conditions may disrupt our business. The Entertainment and Devices Division has generated approximately 40 of its yearly segment revenue in our second fiscal quarter.Online Services Division develops and markets information and content designed to help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online. Bing and MSN generate revenue through the sale of search and display advertising accounting for nearly all of OSD s annual revenue.Microsoft's effective tax rates for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were approximately 24 and 18 Windows Division operating income declined 751 million in fiscal year 2012 while MBD and Server and Tools operating income increased 1 1 billion effective tax rate due to foreign earnings taxed at lower rates. Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities were 7 6 billion and 7 4 billion as of June 30 2012 and2011 respectively.New products and services may not be profitable and even if they are profitable operating margins will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. While piracy adversely affects U S revenue the impact on revenue from outside the U S is more significant. Revenue in these markets may grow slower than the underlying device market.Business depends on ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our customers are located in over 200 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. The long term effects of climate change on the global economy or the IT industry in particular are unclear.Fiscal year 2017 compared with fiscal year 2016 Revenue increased 4 6 billion or 5 driven by growth in Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud Revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2. Gross margin increased 3 1 billion or 6 due to growth across each of our segments including the acquisition of LinkedIn. Cost of revenue decreased 258 million or 1 mainly due to a reduction in phone salesMore Personal Computing Revenue decreased 1 7 billion or 4 mainly due to lower revenue from Devices offset in part by higher revenue from Windows and Search advertising Search advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 9 primarily driven by growth in Bing. Surface revenue decreased 82 million or 2 primarily due to a reduction in volumes sold. Phone revenue decreased 2 8 billion operating income increased 2 1 billion. Server and Tools revenue grew 983 million or 16 in fiscal 2003 Server revenue including CALs grew 787 million or 18 from fiscal 2002 as a result of increased new and anniversary multi year licensing agreements Consulting and Premier product support services increased 91 million or 10 compared to fiscal 2002.Revenue decreased in fiscal year 2006 primarily reflecting a 195 million or 28 decline in access revenue partially offset by a 126 million or 9 increase in advertising revenue As of June 30 2006 MSN had 2 1 million access subscribers compared with 2 7 million at June 30 2005 Headcount related costs increased 25 reflecting a 44 increase in headcount Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile software Windows EmbeddedUnearned revenue as of June 30 2006 increased 1 74 billion from June 30 2005 reflecting additions to unearned revenue from multi year licensing that outpaced recognitions by 1 66 billion. Unearned revenue includes services TV Platform Microsoft Business Solutions advertising and subscriptions for which we have been paid upfront.The investments we make in sustainability carry through to our products services and devices. It is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed. We expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long termbusiness strategy.Despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies it is possible our security controls over personal data may not prevent the improper disclosure or misuse of customer or user data. Data corruption issues or reduced performance could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services. could reduce our operating margins.Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 22 driven by seat growth of 17 and higher revenue per user. Gross margin increased 18 9 billion or 20 driven by growth across each of our segments. Operating expenses increased 2 0 billion or 4 driven by investments in cloud engineering and commercial sales offset in part by savings related to COVID 19.New products and services may not be profitable and even if they are profitable operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. Reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. We may not receive expected royalties from our patent licenses.The global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. Catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business. The impact of climate change on the global economy or the IT industry in particular are unclear.Fiscal year 2015 compared with fiscal year 2014 Commercial revenue increased 2 2 billion or 5 mainly due to growth in revenue from our Commercial Cloud and server products Office Commercial revenue declined 2 5 billion or 13 due to lower transactional license volume reflecting a decline in the business PC market. Online advertising revenue increased 497 million or 14 Search advertising revenueincreased 39 primarily due to increased revenue per searchNet losses on derivatives increased due to higher losses on foreign exchange contracts losses on equity derivatives. Windows PC operating system revenue decreased 655 million in fiscal year 2014 Microsoft Office system and server products and tools revenue increased 1 3 billion and 1 6 billion respectively. Cash flows from operations decreased 3 2 billion during the fiscal year to 29 1 billion Cash used in investing increased 4 2 billion to 23 0 billionMicrosoft sued Motorola for breach of contract in U S District Court in Seattle in November 2010. Microsoft claimed Motorola breached its commitments to standards setting organizations to license to Microsoft certain patents on RAND terms and conditions. Motorola has declared these patents essential to the implementation of the H 264 video standard and the 802 11 Wi Fi standard.Microsoft is subject to economic sanctions in the U S. foreign governments particularly in China and other countries in Asia have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties. There is increasing pressure from advocacy groups regulators competitors and other stakeholders to make technology more accessible.Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing regions the South Pacific and Americas Region, the Europe Middle East and Africa Region and the Asia Region Sales of organizational licenses and packaged products via these channels are primarily to and through distributors and resellers OEM revenue was 6 40 billion in 1999 7 01 billion in 2000 and 7 86 billion in 2001.Microsoft adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards SFAS 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Microsoft plans to continue to make significant investments in software research and development. Windows XP and Xbox will be released in fiscal 2002.Our business model has been based upon customers paying a fee to license software that we developed and distributed. To the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance sales of our products may decline. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position results of operations.Microsoft and Alcatel Lucent are parties to a number of legal proceedings relating to certain patents. Trial has been postponed indefinitely while the parties seek to settle the matter. A settlement is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position.Commercial success depends on many factors including innovativeness developer support and effective distribution and marketing. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business We are subject to income taxes in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes.Fiscal year 2010 compared with fiscal year 2009 Revenue increased mainly due to strong sales of Windows 7 which was released during fiscal year 2010 and PC market improvement. Foreign currency exchange rates had a favorable impact of 486 million on revenue Operating income decreased primarily reflecting decreased revenue.Fiscal year 2009 compared with fiscal year 2008 MBD revenue was flat reflecting increased business revenue offset by decreased consumer revenue Business revenue increased 458 million or 3 primarily reflecting growth in volume licensing agreement revenue Consumer revenue decreased 447 million or 12 primarily as a result of PC market weakness. Research and development expenses increased 118 million or 8 primarily driven by an increase in headcount related expenses associated with BingFiscal year 2009 compared with fiscal year 2008 Dividends and interest income decreased primarily reflecting lower interest rates on our fixed income investments Interest expense decreased due to lower average collateral balances on loaned securities. 2010 other includes a gain on the divestiture of Razorfish 32Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue increased costs liability claims or harm to our reputation or competitive position Threats to IT security can take a variety of forms Cyberthreats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems.The company is facing increased regulatory scrutiny in China and other countries in Asia Government regulatory actions and court decisions may result in fines or hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses. There is increasing pressure from advocacy groups regulators competitors customers and other stakeholders to make technology more accessible.Xbox content and services revenue increased 943 million or 11 on a strong prior year comparable driven by growth in Minecraft third party titles and subscriptions Surface revenue increased 457 million or 8 driven by increased demand from remote work and learn scenarios Xbox hardware revenue declined 31 primarily due to a decrease in volume and price of consoles sold.The following table sets forth the potential loss in future earnings or fair values resulting from hypothetical changes in relevant market rates or prices. Foreign currency Revenue 10 decrease in foreign exchange rates 4 142 Earnings Foreign currency Investments 10 increase in foreign currency interest rates 119 Earnings Earnings per share Basic 5 82 5 11 2 15 Diluted 5 76 5 06 2 13 Weighted average sharesSales of volume licenses and packaged software products are primarily to distributors and resellers South Pacific and Americas Region revenue was 8 33 billion 9 52 billion and 11 41 billion in 2000 2001 and 2002 In fiscal 2002 the majority of the revenue growth was driven by sales of the Xbox video game system.Microsoft entered into a settlement with the United States on November 2 2001 Nine states New York Ohio Illinois Kentucky Louisiana Maryland Michigan North Carolina and Wisconsin agreed to settle on substantially the same terms on November 6 2001. Court will now decide whether to approve the settlement as being in the public interest.Security of our products services devices and customers data is important in our customers decisions to purchase or use our products or services. Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue. Microsoft has paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights.We earn revenue primarily from online advertising including search display and email and messaging services. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U S. We do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months.The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and sometimes may conflict Delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Security vulnerabilities in our products could lead to reduced revenues or to liability claims.Fiscal year 2009 compared with fiscal year 2008 Revenue declined across most segments Foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a 486 million or one percentage point increase in revenue Revenue from Windows operating systems declined reflecting PC market weakness especially PCs sold to businesses.Fiscal year 2009 compared with fiscal year 2008 MBD revenue was flat reflecting decreased consumer revenue offset by increased business revenue. Consumer revenue decreased 525 million or 14 primarily as a result of PC market weakness. Research and development expenses increased 119 million or 8 primarily driven by an increase in headcount related expenses associated with FAST.There are over 50 other patent infringement cases pending against Microsoft 10 of which are set for trial in fiscal year 2010 Other Management currently believes that resolving claims against us individually or in aggregate will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position 2013 Investments in new technology are speculative.Cyber attacks andsecurity vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue. Improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. Adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. Delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenue.Microsoft Dynamics develops and markets products and services designed to entertain and connect people. Consumer revenue decreased 193 million or 4 due to the recognition of 254 million of revenue in the prior year associated with the 2010 Office Upgrade Offer Xbox 360 platform revenue decreased 950 million or 12 due mainly to lower volumes of consoles sold offset in part by higher Xbox LIVE revenue Cost of revenue increased reflecting 1 6 billion in productMicrosoft filed patent infringement complaints against Motorola Mobility Motorola with the International Trade Commission ITC and in U S District Court in Seattle for infringement of nine Microsoft patents. Microsoft and Motorola have filed additional claims against each other in the ITC in federal district courts in Seattle Wisconsin Florida and California.Microsoft has made inroads in share particularly in the U S and in the consumer segment. The Online Services Business consists of an on line advertising platform with offerings for both publishers and advertisers. We earn revenue primarily from online advertising including search display and email and messaging services.7 Entertainment and Devices Division EDD leads the development efforts for our line of consumer software and hardware products EDD is responsible for all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office and the Windows operating systems. We expect revenue to be flat or to decrease due to year over year variations in product launches volume mix and prices across our portfolio of products and services.Dividends and interest income decreased reflecting lower interest rates on our fixed income investments and a reduction in the average balance of interest bearing investments owned Net recognized gains on investments decreased primarily due to declines in equity values as a result of the recent stock market decline. Net gains on derivatives increased due to higher net gains on equity commodity and interest rate.Government regulatory actions and court decisions may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our business. A significant part of our investment portfolio consists of U S government securities.Cost of revenue increased 3 2 billion or 26 due to higher costs associated with our online offerings Sales and marketing expenses increased 726 million or 5 Research and development expenses decreased 296 million or 3 Diluted earnings per share increased reflecting higher revenue repurchases. development expenses increased 119 million or 12 primarily reflecting higher headcount related costs Sales and marketing expenses grew 90 million or12 primarily reflecting increased Xbox 360 platform marketing activities Cost of revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed. Cash used in financing decreased 4 9 billion to 8 4 billion due mainly to a 5 8 billion increase in proceeds from issuance of debt.