No single customer accounted for more than 10 of net sales in 2016 2015 and 2014 Apple Inc 2016 Form 10 K 4CompetitionThe markets for the Company s products and services are highly competitive and the Company is confronted by aggressive competition in all areas of its business. The Company is uniquely positioned to offer integrated digital hub products and solutions.Net sales of other music related products and services increased 242 million or 672 during 2004 compared to 2003. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operated Apple owned retail stores in the U S Canada Japan and the U K.The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margin of the overall personal computer and consumer electronics industries will remain under pressure. The Company expects gross margin percentage to decline in the first quarter of 2006 primarily as a result of a shift in the mix of revenue toward lower margin products.The Company sells its products to the education market through its direct sales force select third party resellers and its online and retail stores. The Company also sells its hardware and software products to enterprise and government customers in each of its geographic segments. Future operating results depend upon the Company s ability to obtain components in sufficient quantities.The Company relies on third party intellectual property and digital content which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms. manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by a few outsourcing partners located primarily in Asia. The Company is subject to laws and regulations worldwide changes to which could increase the Company s costs.The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. Direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than indirect sales through channel partners. The Company has typically experienced higher net sales in the first fiscal quarter compared to other fiscal quarters due in part to holiday seasonal demand.The Company s average net sales per Macintosh unit sold increased 2 to 1 491 in 2003. The current year increase was primarily driven by the 202 million or 141 year over year increase in iPod net sales to 345 million. Unit sales of Power Macintosh systems fell 13 during 2003 compared to 2002.The Company did not experience the anticipated increase in Power Macintosh sales that it expected following the introduction of Adobe s PhotoShop 7 during 2002. Despite the overall increase in net sales during 2002 in the Americas the Company continued to see weakness in its U S education channel. The Retail segment currently operates 28 Apple owned retail stores in the United States.Gross margin increased to 27 9 of net sales in 2002 from 23 0 in 2001. Gross margins declined during fiscal 2002 from 31 in the first quarter down to 26 in the fourth quarter. Research and Development R D expense increased 6 or 25 million to 471 million in 2003 as compared to 2002.The Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect that new products will have on its sales or results of operations Because orders for components and in some cases commitments to purchase components must be placed in advance of customer orders the Company faces substantial inventory risk. Continued deterioration in Power Macintosh unit sales could adversely affect the Company s future net sales and gross margin.The Company distributes its products through wholesalers resellers national and regional retailers and cataloguers. The Company also sells many of its products and resells certain third party products in most of its major markets directly to end users. Faces increasing competition in the U S education market.There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware and software it sells. Declines in the sales of the Company s professional products software accessories or service and support contracts or increases in sales of consumer products including iPods may negatively impact the  business.Net sales rose 30 to a total of 7 983 billion in 2000 as compared to 1999. Increase in net sales resulted directly from a 32 increase in Macintosh unit sales. Average revenue per Macintosh system fell 17 to 1 739 from 2 095 in 1998. Macintosh system fell 17 to 1 739 from 2 095 in 1998. There can be no assurance current gross margins will be maintained or targeted gross margin levels will be achieved. The Company uses some components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer industry including certain microprocessors and ASICs.Net sales of iPods rose 961 million or 279 during fiscal 2004 compared to 2003 Strong demand for the iPods during Fiscal 2004 continued to be experienced in all of the Company s operating segments. Macintosh unit sales declined 3 year over year to approximately 3 million units in 2003.Net sales in the Americas segment grew 26 or 838 million compared to fiscal 2003 Macintosh unit sales also increased by 4 in fiscal 2004 compared to 2003. The Americas segment had been negatively affected by weakness in its U S education channel during 2003. Europe experienced strong net sales across all product lines except for the iMac systems.Research and Development R D expense amounted to approximately 6 of total net sales during fiscal 2004 down from 8 of net sales in both 2003 and 2002 R D spending also included capitalized software development costs of approximately 4 5 million related to the development of Mac OS X Tiger and FileMaker Pro 7 in 2004 Selling General and Administrative Expense SG A Expenditures for SG A increased 209 million or 17The Company s operating performance depends significantly on general economic conditions in the U S and abroad. Past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance. The Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect that new products will have on its sales or results of operations.The inability of the Company s suppliers to provide advanced PowerPC microprocessors in sufficient quantity has had significant adverse effects on the Company's results of operations. The relatively slower MHz 48 rating or clock speed of the microprocessers it utilizes in its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably to those utilized by other operating systems. A relatively high proportion of the Retail segment s costs are fixed because ofThere can be no assurance that the Company will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company weaknesses in foreign currencies particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro can adversely affect demand for the Company s products. A strengthening in these and other foreign currencies can cause the Company to modify international pricing.The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operates Apple owned retail stores in the U S Canada Japan the U K and Italy.Other Segments experienced an increase in net sales of 406 million or 30 during 2007 compared to 2006 Gross margin percentage of 34 0 in 2007 increased significantly from 29 0 in 2006. The Company expects gross margin percentage to decline sequentially in the first quarter of 2008. Research and Development R D Expenditures for R D increased 10 or 70 million to 782 million in 2007 Selling General and AdministrativeiPad and related products and services accounted for 8 of the Company s total net sales for 2010. Retail segment operates Apple retail stores in 11 countries including the U S. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services.The Company expects its gross margin percentage to decrease in future periods compared to levels achieved during 2010. such costs could adversely affect the Company s financial condition and operating results. The Company classifies its marketable securities as either short term or long term based on each instrument s underlying contractual maturity date.Net sales increased 379 million or 7 during 2002 compared to 2001 Macintosh unit sales were relatively flat year over year at approximately 3 1 million units Retail segment grew from 19 million in 2001 to 283 million in 2002 Net sales per Macintosh unit sold during 2002 of 1 462 per unit reflects the shift in mix towards relatively higher priced portable Macintosh systems.The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Company s reportable operating segments include the Americas Europe Japan and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America except for the Company s Retail segment. The European segment includes European countries as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple owned retail stores in the United StatesResearch and Development R D expense increased 4 or 16 million to 446 million in 2002 as compared to 2001 Selling General and Administrative Expense SG A decreased 27 million or 2 during 2002 asCompared to 2001. The decrease in SG A in 2002 is primarily the result of lower discretionary spending on marketing and advertising expenses. The Company expects interest and other income net to decline substantially in 2003 as declinesThe Company is currently the only maker of hardware using the Mac OS. The Mac OS has a minority market share in the personal computer market. The Company incurs higher research and development costs as a percentage of revenue than its competitors.The Company faces increasing competition in the U S education market Sales in the United States to both elementary and secondary schools as well as for college and university customers remains a core market for Apple. Continued deterioration in Power Macintosh unit sales will adversely affect the Company s future net sales and gross margin. The Company holds minority investments in several public companies with a combined fair market value of approximately 39 million asThe Company relies on a single cellular network carrier to provide service for iPhone. The Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable and prepayments related to long term supply agreements. The matters relating to the Company s past stock option practices may result in additional litigation. Americas segment includes both North and South America. Europe segment includes European countries as well as the Middle East and Africa. Retail segment operates Apple owned retail stores in the U S and in international markets. Other Segments experienced an increase in net sales of 707 million or 40 during 2008.The Company markets certain mobile communication and media devices based on the iOS mobile operating system and also markets related third party digital content and applications. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and services that compete effectively. The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including timely and successful product development.The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have not yet been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary course of business Technology companies including many of the Company s competitors frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. As the Company has grown the intellectual property rights claims against it have increased and may continue to increase.Net sales rose 9 or 14 4 billion during 2013 compared to 2012. Growth resulted from growth in net sales of iPhone iTunes software and services and iPad. All of the Company s operating segments experienced increased net sales in 2013. Mac net sales and unit sales for 2013 were down or relatively flat in all of the company's operating segments.The Company sells its products in most of its major markets directly to consumers and businesses through its retail and online stores. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate for a variety of reasons.The Company is subject to risks associated with laws regulations and industry imposed standards related to mobile communications devices. The Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. If the Company fails to meet these expectations its stock prices may significantly decline.As of September 27 2008 the end of the annual period covered by this report the Company is subject to the various legal proceedings and claims discussed below. operating results could be materially adversely affected if the financial condition of these resellers weakens if resellers stop distributing the Company s products. The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of its investment portfolio.Japan segment s overall net sales declined by 129 million. The Company is continuing to evaluate ways to improve the future results of its Japan segment Retail Retail net sales grew by 53 during 2008 compared to 2007. The Retail segment reported operating income of 1 3 billion during 2008.If the Company s supply of a key single sourced component for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained if such components were available only at significantly higher prices or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to the Company 2011 The Company sells to consumers small and mid sized businesses SMB and education enterprise and government customers.The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. The Company has typically experienced greater net sales in the first fiscal quarter compared to other fiscal quarters due to increased holiday seasonal demand. Developments late in a quarter such as lower than anticipated demand for the Company s products could have a material adverse impact.